Social class and education
The centrality of a library in true education has long been acknowledged: ‘The true University of these days is a collection of books’ (Carlyle). ‘A university is just a group of buildings gathered around a library’ (Foote).

The connection between social class and educational achievement has been well documented for many years. Many would argue that in a democracy, participation in education should offer an opportunity to improve one’s lot both in terms of income and to enhance one’s perceived status by changing social class. In a democracy this is theoretically possible and some individuals are able to realise their ambitions by this route. Sadly, however, the educational system often serves to support the status quo and reinforce the class barriers it could help to demolish. It is interesting that in 2000, the following appeared in the Harvard Educational Review when re-issuing a report of classic research conducted in the US:

In 1970 the Harvard Educational Review published an article by Ray Rist that described how, for the one class of children he observed, their public school not only mirrored the class system of the larger society but also actively contributed to maintaining it. Now, thirty years later, the Editorial Board of the Harvard Educational Review has decided to reprint this article as part of the HER Classics Series. We hope that by reacquainting readers with this article, and by introducing it to new readers, we can encourage all of us to think about the work that remains in creating a just and equitable educational experience for all children. (Rist, 2000)

In the traditionally class-ridden society of the UK we learn:

All the independent evidence shows overall standards to be rising. But the bad news is that when it comes to the link between educational achievement and social class, Britain is at the bottom of the league for industrialised countries … We continue to have one of the greatest class divides in education in the industrialised world, with a socio-economic attainment gap evident in children as young as 22 months … Today, three-quarters of young people born into the top social class get five or more good GCSEs, but the figure for those born at the bottom is less than one-third … Four factors are key to this depressing pattern. First the simple fact of growing up in poverty, with the restrictions it places on housing, diet and lifestyle. Second, family factors – critically parental interest and support, which itself is driven by parental experience of education. Third, neighbourhood factors. The fourth is the quality of schooling. The first three require long-term change in social and economic life. But the great power of schooling is that it is in our power to change it now and change it for the better. (Miliband, 2003)

A survey of more than 2,000 pupils in Nottinghamshire concluded that educational attainment reflects the social class background of the pupils. Using a points system based on GCSE grades, the pupils of parents with manual jobs averaged 18.5 points; those from clerical backgrounds averaged 29.2; and those from a professional background averaged 41.7 points (Social class and educational performance, 1993).

As was argued in Chapter 2 the take up of public library services is, at least in the UK, historically linked to social class. Given the role of the public libraries in the rollout of ICT services, any lack of synergy between the library and a disadvantaged social group can only compound that disadvantage.

The Individual Security Employee
Charles A. Sennewald, Curtis Baillie, in Effective Security Management (Sixth Edition), 2016

Attitude
Of all the characteristics or virtues brought to the job, none, including educational achievement, can exceed that of attitude. Attitude determines a person’s conduct and bearing toward others and their reaction to him or her. Good attitude produces good reaction; bad attitude produces bad reaction. Attitude is contagious. It is a key ingredient in success or failure.

Take a security employee exemplifying the other five standards of conduct—one who is courteous, punctual, objective, cooperative, and above reproach—and imbue that employee with a cheerful and positive attitude and you will have the finest security employee. The department’s reputation is a reflection of that composite.

Promotions
Charles A. Sennewald, Curtis Baillie, in Effective Security Management (Sixth Edition), 2016

Identifying Promotional Candidates
There is as much excitement among security management personnel in their role in the promotion process as there is among the ranks. The appointment of a new supervisor or promotion of a supervisor to a position of greater responsibility in most cases has a personal effect on existing managers and supervisors. Naturally, they want the best and most effective person moved up.

In identifying candidates, there is a tendency to get mired in qualities desired or “qualifications” that should not be an issue. Such factors as an ability to articulate, popularity, the “halo effect” of some recent incident, and length of service should be considered at some later point but should not be the initial qualifying considerations.

There are three basic qualification factors to be considered in selecting candidates for supervisory or managerial responsibility:


The candidate’s educational achievements

The employee’s track record in job performance

The anticipated or expected performance in the higher level job, based on demonstrated leadership skills

Other factors are peripheral in nature.

The Candidate’s Educational Achievements
The successful pursuit and attainment of a college education is a clear indicator the individual was willing to make the necessary sacrifices to grow, was motivated enough to endure the rigors that higher education demands, and demonstrated sufficient self-discipline to reach the desired goal. Surely those are critical personal characteristics desirable in leadership positions. Numerous factors must be considered and weighed in this area, such as the major focus (degree in secondary education or fine arts versus security administration); two-year, bachelor’s, or graduate degree; college courses pursued in the traditional span of time, for example, four consecutive years or spread out over a number of years on a part-time basis (typically indicative of a tenacious “no surrender” type of person); and the earned grade point average (GPA).

In the unlikely event that no one in the pool of candidates for the promotion has any college education, then only high school graduates should be considered, and such factors as extracurricular activities (serving in student government, athletics, debating team, and school club activities), school honors earned, and GPA should be weighed.

The Candidate’s Track Record
Employees whose service and job performance are rated as “above average” or “above acceptable standards” would constitute the first group of candidates. A rating of “average” performance or “meets acceptable standards” should, as a rule, be disqualifying. This is because the highly desirable quality of being an “achiever” is reflected in regular performance evaluations of above average. Average workers are doers. Above average workers are achievers; they obviously go above and beyond what is expected. By most employee performance evaluation standards, they “frequently exceed requirements of the job,” always through their own initiative. (Incidentally, employees rated as “outstanding” performers are defined as those who “consistently exceed job requirements” as opposed to “frequently.”) Thus the achievement-oriented employee meets the first of the two criteria.

Anticipated Performance in the Higher Level Job Based on Demonstrated Leadership Skills
The tentative candidates (the achievers) must now be analyzed, one at a time, as to how they might measure up to or perform against standards of the higher position in question. If the open position requires scheduling employees, for example, those assessing a candidate must look back on prior performance for evidence of some demonstrated behavior or action indicating that the candidate could indeed schedule subordinates (which would include schedule revisions, emergency scheduling, appropriate degree of flexibility, etc.). It could be that the candidate has actually done some scheduling at the request of his or her supervisor. Indeed, any supervisor or manager worth his or her salt would have consistently delegated, in some measure, supervisorial duties to deserving employees to test their ability to perform in this higher arena. In that case, management could properly anticipate or expect good performance in that area if the candidate is promoted.

More often than not, those attempting to qualify candidates for promotion tend to look for disqualifiers in this anticipatory phase. They look for duties that, because of past performance, the tentative candidate could be expected not to perform competently in the higher assignment.

Disqualifiers may be identified by management or by the candidate. For example, otherwise qualified candidates may disqualify themselves because they do not want to travel or move, or do not want shift changes. Some may state frankly that they cannot discipline or evaluate others. Employee self-disqualification makes management’s decision easier.

It is important to note that disqualifiers, as such, should be understood to apply for the present situation only. Any number of things can happen to change circumstances between promotional opportunities. Management should never assume that an earlier disqualifier still stands.

The most difficult task is the projection that the candidate is not able or qualified to perform the higher level job. If, for any reason, that disqualification is subject to question or is not the unanimous decision of security management, then the candidate should not be disqualified. He or she should move on to the actual competition with the other qualified candidates.

What has not been stated, but should be evident, is that the promotional opportunity is common knowledge; it is not a secret. Thus when the announcement does come, it is no surprise. Most people do not like surprises in the work environment and react negatively to them. In the process of identifying candidates for the promotion, a healthy and open climate about promotions should be established.

Curriculum as a Field of Educational Study
J.I. Goodlad, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

5 The River Curriculum
What Tyler accomplished in a short space was the identification and alignment of the essential components of curriculum construction—the commonplaces. For many critics, the synthesis was too tidy, too linear, or too little attentive to their specialties. Indeed, the Tyler Rationale lent itself to conversion into a sloppy algebraic formula: P (purposes)+L (learning experiences)+O (organization)+E (evaluation)=C (curriculum). Nonetheless, for decades many specialists found it necessary to take a stand with respect to Tyler's work in advancing their own positions. What Tyler contributed was a systematic arrangement of a language of curriculum—a lexicon.

This became clear at the International Seminar for Advanced Training in Curriculum Development and Innovation, supported by UNESCO and the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IAEEA) and directed by Benjamin Bloom, in Gränna, Sweden, during the summer of 1971 (Bloom 1971). Teams of four to six persons from 23 countries of South America, Africa, Asia, and Europe attended lectures by Tyler most mornings and read his monograph. There were fears in the subgroups, each comprised of one member from each of the teams, that cultural differences would deny conversation around common issues. They soon discovered, however, that the lexicon of ordered curriculum commonplaces of the Tyler Rationale provided common ground.

Schooling, especially at the elementary and secondary levels, is a highly political endeavor that connects only loosely and sporadically with scholarly inquiry. The support and use of studies of existing curricula are rare. The seminal studies of Torsten Husén and his colleagues decades ago that influenced practice in Sweden appear to have suffered the fate of the Eight-Year Study; there is no mention of them in the massive Handbook of Research on Curriculum (Jackson 1992). The several rather comprehensive inquiries into practice in the USA conducted in the 1980s were supported by private philanthropy and their recommendations obliterated by publicly supported nonresearch reports of state and federal commissions. Had Benjamin Bloom and his associates been successful in securing financial support for creating the International Curriculum Organization of national centers such as those represented at the Gränna conference, an organization conceived as a companion of the IAEEA, the international perspective and exchange thus gained might have served to offset the bureaucratic monitoring role most specialists and centers have been required to perform.

With the macro-issues of curriculum practice dominated by political machinations, today's students of curriculum are limited largely to fine-grained micromatters. Given the current state of scientific inquiry in curriculum, this is society's loss. A robust future for curriculum as a field of study devoted to educational renewal depends on it being recognized and supported for its potential benefit to humankind.

Comparative Research in Education: IEA Studies
J.P. Keeves, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

5 The Research Program of IEA
In the late 1950s a group of educational research workers meeting at the UNESCO Institute for Education in Hamburg saw the need for comparative studies of the relationships and processes operating to influence the educational outcomes of achievement and attitudes. They recognized that there was generally insufficient variability within a particular country to detect the effects of specific factors on the outcomes of learning, using existing methods of statistical analysis. They argued that if research studies could be undertaken between countries, as well as within countries, then the greater variation that existed across countries and the different school systems within countries would permit the identification of common factors of importance which influenced learning outcomes.

The feasibility of conducting research studies across countries into factors influencing educational achievement was tested in a pilot study. The success of this study led to the establishment of the IEA. Over a period of nearly 40 years IEA has carried out a sustained program of research studies, which have in the main been survey and cross-national investigations, into factors that have an effect on educational achievement, participation rates, and attitudes towards school and school learning. The data collected have been examined across countries, between schools within countries, and between students within countries, and where possible relationships have been tested after controlling for other factors that might affect the educational outcomes under consideration. The specific relationships that have been tested fall into one of several types, namely: (a) relationships between predictor and criterion variables across countries; (b) similar common relationships between predictor and criterion variables at the levels of between students and schools within countries; (c) relationships between predictor and criterion variables at the levels of between students and between schools that are unique to a particular country or a small group of countries; and (d) the absence of an observable relationship where current opinion has hypothesized that such a relationship should exist.

Before the systematic examination of processes between students, between schools, and between countries can take place advances must be made along three fronts. First, it is necessary for theory to be developed and models formulated of specific processes of school learning. Second, it is necessary for data to be collected that are sufficiently comparable across countries, so that the testing of models in a comparative manner is worthwhile. Third, statistical procedures for the testing of models must be developed in order to provide strong estimates of effects and efficient estimates of error for the examination of statistical significance and effect size.

Several theoretical frameworks have guided the development of models in IEA research studies. From the Gränna Workshop conducted in Sweden by IEA in 1971, which examined in detail the seminal work Handbook on Formative and Summative Evaluation of Student Learning (Bloom et al. 1971) came the theoretical view of curriculum implementation that has been tested in several IEA studies. In this model the curriculum can be considered to exist at three levels: (a) the intended curriculum, (b) the implemented curriculum, and (c) the achieved curriculum, which are influenced by the antecedent and contextual factors as well as the learning conditions in the schools and teaching practices. A second highly influential model in IEA research has been Carroll's (1963) model of school learning, which was tested empirically with respect to the study of learning French as a foreign language, and has formed the basis for causal models in several IEA studies. A third model that has guided IEA research has been a cross-national model of educational achievement in a national economy advanced by Dahllöf (1967). Of particular interest for policy making are the frame or structural variables. Moreover, their dependence on (a) the environment and the economy, (b) demand for personnel, (c) curriculum content, and (d) the objectives of the school system, is argued on theoretical grounds by Dahllöf. However, only limited aspects of this theoretical model have been tested in either primary or secondary analyses.

IEA studies have consistently recorded the marked differences in levels of achievement between developed and developing countries, with much lesser variation between the countries within each group. Furthermore, it has been shown that a causal model, which explained well the influence of individual student factors on reading achievement at the 14-year-old level in developed countries, was less than adequate in two developing countries, India and Iran. These findings suggest that there are different processes in operation influencing educational outcomes in developed and developing countries.

As statistical procedures for the testing of models of causal processes have been developed, IEA has remained at the forefront of statistical analysis and has advanced and tested complex models to generate an understanding of the processes that operate to influence educational outcomes. It is noteworthy that such analytical procedures as blockwise regression analysis, partial least squares path analysis, and linear structural relations analysis were developed in collaboration with scholars at the Institute of International Education in Stockholm, who were working on the analysis of IEA data. Likewise, the advancement of procedures for the improvement of the measurement of educational outcomes in large-scale surveys, with equating across levels of test administration and over time owes much to the work of IEA.

Fertility and Culture: Anthropological Insights
C. Bledsoe, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

2 Future Possibilities for Anthropology and Demography in Studies of Reproduction
In the evolving relationship between anthropology and demography, the spectrum of topics continues to broaden. Common interests can be found in the politics of fertility control, gender relations, the negotiation of fertility decisions among spouses, and the re-opening to scrutiny of taken-for-granted associations between fertility and variables such as educational achievement. Anthropology's current interests in the new reproductive technologies holds the potential for studies of the timing and circumstances of entry into parenthood. Finally, it can be noted that although anthropology made itself as a discipline on the study of exotic people living in distant places, increasing numbers of practitioners are coming ‘back home,’ studying social and cultural phenomena in the urban United States and Europe. This trend may facilitate fresh collaborations with demographers on studies of reproduction in Western societies. Some of the most productive areas of common ground in studies of reproduction for the two disciplines may thus lie in studies of migration. New anthropological interests in global flows of people, ideas, and technologies are coming at the time when demographers are taking up the challenges of studying international population movements and refugees. The opening of the European Union and, in the United States, the removal of national-origin quotas for immigrants has spawned migration across national borders on an unprecedented scale. Such a mix of national ideologies and policies of social support that must underpin these dynamics as people envision a reproductive career invoke are virtually uncharted areas. It will no longer be possible to rest on conventional notions either of a population boundary or of local cultural practices. Clearly, in any case, anthropology's style of engagement with demography and the insights to be gained from such mergers will continue to change as the fields themselves change.

Mediating Variable
D.P. MacKinnon, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

2 Examples
Because the mediating variable elaborates the relationship between two variables by explaining why or how an effect occurs, it is of considerable importance in many fields. One of the first applications of the mediating variable was in psychological theories that learning processes, such as habit strength, explained the association of stimulus and response (Hull 1943). Later, a distinction was made between hypothetical mediating constructs representing processes or entities not directly observed and intervening variables which were observed measures of these hypothetical constructs (MacCorquodale and Meehl 1948). Duncan (1966) established the use of mediating variables in sociology when he applied path analysis techniques developed earlier by Sewall Wright (1934) to examine causal mediating relations among variables. One of the first sociological examples was that father's socioeconomic status causes the mediating variable, child's educational achievement, which causes child's socioeconomic status. The effect of father's socioeconomic status on child's socioeconomic status was not entirely mediated by child's educational achievement, so a direct effect between father's and child's socioeconomic status was also included in the model. Decomposition of effects into direct and indirect effects is a common focus of sociological research, whereas identifying mediating variables that entirely explain an effect is more common in psychological research.

A new application of the mediating variable is in chronic disease research (Schatzkin et al. 1990). Prospective studies examining the effects of etiological factors or prevention strategies on chronic disease require lengthy follow-up measurements because of the low frequency of occurrence and the slow development of the disease. As a result, researchers attempt to identify mediating variables on the causal pathway relating risk factors to disease. The mediating variables are called intermediate or surrogate endpoints. Using colon cancer as an example, the proliferation of epithelial cells in the large bowel occurs before colon cancer and is causally related to colon cancer. A study targeting cell proliferation rather than colon cancer requires less time and fewer subjects.

Mediating variables are critical in the development and application of prevention programs. Here the prevention program is designed to change mediating variables hypothesized to be causally related to the dependent variable. It is assumed that the prevention program causes change in the mediating variable which in turn causes change in the dependent variable. Programs to prevent coronary heart disease target behaviors such as diet and smoking and biological factors such as cholesterol level and blood pressure. Social influences-based drug prevention programs are designed to increase skills to resist drug offers and engender norms less tolerant of drug use. Treatment programs for substance abuse target mediators such as communication skills and social support to prevent a relapse to drug abuse.

Theories of health behavior and observed empirical relationships guide the selection of mediating variables for prevention programs. A prevention program based on established theory regarding mediating variables may be more likely to change the outcome measure and the results provide a test of the theoretical basis of the prevention program. Competing theories of the onset of drug abuse, for example, may suggest alternative mediators that can be tested in an experimental design. Prevention programs will also cost less and will have greater benefits if effective and ineffective mediating processes are identified.

Mediating variables in prevention serve a different purpose than other applications of mediating variable methodology. In the prevention case, mediating variables are selected before the study and are fundamental to the prevention program because of their causal relationship to the dependent variable. In most other applications, the purpose of the mediating variable is to identify the processes that generated an effect, after the effect has been found.

