

The Candidate’s Educational Achievements
The successful pursuit and attainment of a college education is a clear indicator the individual was willing to make the necessary sacrifices to grow, was motivated enough to endure the rigors that higher education demands, and demonstrated sufficient self-discipline to reach the desired goal. Surely those are critical personal characteristics desirable in leadership positions. Numerous factors must be considered and weighed in this area, such as the major focus (degree in secondary education or fine arts versus security administration); two-year, bachelor’s, or graduate degree; college courses pursued in the traditional span of time, for example, four consecutive years or spread out over a number of years on a part-time basis (typically indicative of a tenacious “no surrender” type of person); and the earned grade point average (GPA).

In the unlikely event that no one in the pool of candidates for the promotion has any college education, then only high school graduates should be considered, and such factors as extracurricular activities (serving in student government, athletics, debating team, and school club activities), school honors earned, and GPA should be weighed.

The Candidate’s Track Record
Employees whose service and job performance are rated as “above average” or “above acceptable standards” would constitute the first group of candidates. A rating of “average” performance or “meets acceptable standards” should, as a rule, be disqualifying. This is because the highly desirable quality of being an “achiever” is reflected in regular performance evaluations of above average. Average workers are doers. Above average workers are achievers; they obviously go above and beyond what is expected. By most employee performance evaluation standards, they “frequently exceed requirements of the job,” always through their own initiative. (Incidentally, employees rated as “outstanding” performers are defined as those who “consistently exceed job requirements” as opposed to “frequently.”) Thus the achievement-oriented employee meets the first of the two criteria.

Anticipated Performance in the Higher Level Job Based on Demonstrated Leadership Skills
The tentative candidates (the achievers) must now be analyzed, one at a time, as to how they might measure up to or perform against standards of the higher position in question. If the open position requires scheduling employees, for example, those assessing a candidate must look back on prior performance for evidence of some demonstrated behavior or action indicating that the candidate could indeed schedule subordinates (which would include schedule revisions, emergency scheduling, appropriate degree of flexibility, etc.). It could be that the candidate has actually done some scheduling at the request of his or her supervisor. Indeed, any supervisor or manager worth his or her salt would have consistently delegated, in some measure, supervisorial duties to deserving employees to test their ability to perform in this higher arena. In that case, management could properly anticipate or expect good performance in that area if the candidate is promoted.

More often than not, those attempting to qualify candidates for promotion tend to look for disqualifiers in this anticipatory phase. They look for duties that, because of past performance, the tentative candidate could be expected not to perform competently in the higher assignment.

Disqualifiers may be identified by management or by the candidate. For example, otherwise qualified candidates may disqualify themselves because they do not want to travel or move, or do not want shift changes. Some may state frankly that they cannot discipline or evaluate others. Employee self-disqualification makes management’s decision easier.

It is important to note that disqualifiers, as such, should be understood to apply for the present situation only. Any number of things can happen to change circumstances between promotional opportunities. Management should never assume that an earlier disqualifier still stands.

The most difficult task is the projection that the candidate is not able or qualified to perform the higher level job. If, for any reason, that disqualification is subject to question or is not the unanimous decision of security management, then the candidate should not be disqualified. He or she should move on to the actual competition with the other qualified candidates.

What has not been stated, but should be evident, is that the promotional opportunity is common knowledge; it is not a secret. Thus when the announcement does come, it is no surprise. Most people do not like surprises in the work environment and react negatively to them. In the process of identifying candidates for the promotion, a healthy and open climate about promotions should be established.

Curriculum as a Field of Educational Study
J.I. Goodlad, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

5 The River Curriculum
What Tyler accomplished in a short space was the identification and alignment of the essential components of curriculum construction—the commonplaces. For many critics, the synthesis was too tidy, too linear, or too little attentive to their specialties. Indeed, the Tyler Rationale lent itself to conversion into a sloppy algebraic formula: P (purposes)+L (learning experiences)+O (organization)+E (evaluation)=C (curriculum). Nonetheless, for decades many specialists found it necessary to take a stand with respect to Tyler's work in advancing their own positions. What Tyler contributed was a systematic arrangement of a language of curriculum—a lexicon.

This became clear at the International Seminar for Advanced Training in Curriculum Development and Innovation, supported by UNESCO and the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IAEEA) and directed by Benjamin Bloom, in Gränna, Sweden, during the summer of 1971 (Bloom 1971). Teams of four to six persons from 23 countries of South America, Africa, Asia, and Europe attended lectures by Tyler most mornings and read his monograph. There were fears in the subgroups, each comprised of one member from each of the teams, that cultural differences would deny conversation around common issues. They soon discovered, however, that the lexicon of ordered curriculum commonplaces of the Tyler Rationale provided common ground.

Schooling, especially at the elementary and secondary levels, is a highly political endeavor that connects only loosely and sporadically with scholarly inquiry. The support and use of studies of existing curricula are rare. The seminal studies of Torsten Husén and his colleagues decades ago that influenced practice in Sweden appear to have suffered the fate of the Eight-Year Study; there is no mention of them in the massive Handbook of Research on Curriculum (Jackson 1992). The several rather comprehensive inquiries into practice in the USA conducted in the 1980s were supported by private philanthropy and their recommendations obliterated by publicly supported nonresearch reports of state and federal commissions. Had Benjamin Bloom and his associates been successful in securing financial support for creating the International Curriculum Organization of national centers such as those represented at the Gränna conference, an organization conceived as a companion of the IAEEA, the international perspective and exchange thus gained might have served to offset the bureaucratic monitoring role most specialists and centers have been required to perform.

With the macro-issues of curriculum practice dominated by political machinations, today's students of curriculum are limited largely to fine-grained micromatters. Given the current state of scientific inquiry in curriculum, this is society's loss. A robust future for curriculum as a field of study devoted to educational renewal depends on it being recognized and supported for its potential benefit to humankind.

Comparative Research in Education: IEA Studies
J.P. Keeves, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

5 The Research Program of IEA
In the late 1950s a group of educational research workers meeting at the UNESCO Institute for Education in Hamburg saw the need for comparative studies of the relationships and processes operating to influence the educational outcomes of achievement and attitudes. They recognized that there was generally insufficient variability within a particular country to detect the effects of specific factors on the outcomes of learning, using existing methods of statistical analysis. They argued that if research studies could be undertaken between countries, as well as within countries, then the greater variation that existed across countries and the different school systems within countries would permit the identification of common factors of importance which influenced learning outcomes.

The feasibility of conducting research studies across countries into factors influencing educational achievement was tested in a pilot study. The success of this study led to the establishment of the IEA. Over a period of nearly 40 years IEA has carried out a sustained program of research studies, which have in the main been survey and cross-national investigations, into factors that have an effect on educational achievement, participation rates, and attitudes towards school and school learning. The data collected have been examined across countries, between schools within countries, and between students within countries, and where possible relationships have been tested after controlling for other factors that might affect the educational outcomes under consideration. The specific relationships that have been tested fall into one of several types, namely: (a) relationships between predictor and criterion variables across countries; (b) similar common relationships between predictor and criterion variables at the levels of between students and schools within countries; (c) relationships between predictor and criterion variables at the levels of between students and between schools that are unique to a particular country or a small group of countries; and (d) the absence of an observable relationship where current opinion has hypothesized that such a relationship should exist.

Before the systematic examination of processes between students, between schools, and between countries can take place advances must be made along three fronts. First, it is necessary for theory to be developed and models formulated of specific processes of school learning. Second, it is necessary for data to be collected that are sufficiently comparable across countries, so that the testing of models in a comparative manner is worthwhile. Third, statistical procedures for the testing of models must be developed in order to provide strong estimates of effects and efficient estimates of error for the examination of statistical significance and effect size.

Several theoretical frameworks have guided the development of models in IEA research studies. From the Gränna Workshop conducted in Sweden by IEA in 1971, which examined in detail the seminal work Handbook on Formative and Summative Evaluation of Student Learning (Bloom et al. 1971) came the theoretical view of curriculum implementation that has been tested in several IEA studies. In this model the curriculum can be considered to exist at three levels: (a) the intended curriculum, (b) the implemented curriculum, and (c) the achieved curriculum, which are influenced by the antecedent and contextual factors as well as the learning conditions in the schools and teaching practices. A second highly influential model in IEA research has been Carroll's (1963) model of school learning, which was tested empirically with respect to the study of learning French as a foreign language, and has formed the basis for causal models in several IEA studies. A third model that has guided IEA research has been a cross-national model of educational achievement in a national economy advanced by Dahllöf (1967). Of particular interest for policy making are the frame or structural variables. Moreover, their dependence on (a) the environment and the economy, (b) demand for personnel, (c) curriculum content, and (d) the objectives of the school system, is argued on theoretical grounds by Dahllöf. However, only limited aspects of this theoretical model have been tested in either primary or secondary analyses.

IEA studies have consistently recorded the marked differences in levels of achievement between developed and developing countries, with much lesser variation between the countries within each group. Furthermore, it has been shown that a causal model, which explained well the influence of individual student factors on reading achievement at the 14-year-old level in developed countries, was less than adequate in two developing countries, India and Iran. These findings suggest that there are different processes in operation influencing educational outcomes in developed and developing countries.

As statistical procedures for the testing of models of causal processes have been developed, IEA has remained at the forefront of statistical analysis and has advanced and tested complex models to generate an understanding of the processes that operate to influence educational outcomes. It is noteworthy that such analytical procedures as blockwise regression analysis, partial least squares path analysis, and linear structural relations analysis were developed in collaboration with scholars at the Institute of International Education in Stockholm, who were working on the analysis of IEA data. Likewise, the advancement of procedures for the improvement of the measurement of educational outcomes in large-scale surveys, with equating across levels of test administration and over time owes much to the work of IEA.

Fertility and Culture: Anthropological Insights
C. Bledsoe, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001

2 Future Possibilities for Anthropology and Demography in Studies of Reproduction
In the evolving relationship between anthropology and demography, the spectrum of topics continues to broaden. Common interests can be found in the politics of fertility control, gender relations, the negotiation of fertility decisions among spouses, and the re-opening to scrutiny of taken-for-granted associations between fertility and variables such as educational achievement. Anthropology's current interests in the new reproductive technologies holds the potential for studies of the timing and circumstances of entry into parenthood. Finally, it can be noted that although anthropology made itself as a discipline on the study of exotic people living in distant places, increasing numbers of practitioners are coming ‘back home,’ studying social and cultural phenomena in the urban United States and Europe. This trend may facilitate fresh collaborations with demographers on studies of reproduction in Western societies. Some of the most productive areas of common ground in studies of reproduction for the two disciplines may thus lie in studies of migration. New anthropological interests in global flows of people, ideas, and technologies are coming at the time when demographers are taking up the challenges of studying international population movements and refugees. The opening of the European Union and, in the United States, the removal of national-origin quotas for immigrants has spawned migration across national borders on an unprecedented scale. Such a mix of national ideologies and policies of social support that must underpin these dynamics as people envision a reproductive career invoke are virtually uncharted areas. It will no longer be possible to rest on conventional notions either of a population boundary or of local cultural practices. Clearly, in any case, anthropology's style of engagement with demography and the insights to be gained from such mergers will continue to change as the fields themselves change.

Mediating Variable
D.P. MacKinnon, in International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2001
y and are fundamental to the prevention program because of their causal relationship to the dependent variable. In most other applications, the purpose of the mediating variable is to identify the processes that generated an effect, after the effect has been found.
